# Post Mortem
My favorite fundamental change in myself due to this project is that I now understand initially what goes into making a phone app. In my software engineering class, my group mates and I made an app that used the google maps API and I learned a lot, but it also taught me more about bringing pieces together to make a project work. This project has given me the experience to start building small usable products completely encapsulated in one app. I started from scratch on this app; without using a template or a pre-built activity such as maps. I know where all the pieces live, I know how they are connected, and because of that I felt that most of my debugging was very straight-forward considering I have never made something like this before.

Personally, I thought this was the perfect assignment to start with in this course. It’s right there in the description, make something. The hard part was not getting hung up on the GUI and making something. Overall, most of my time was spent making the layout, getting the buttons working, thinking about input rules and how to avoid bad input. The computation aspect was extremely simple, and I rather enjoyed making a linked list. 

Since my first experience with data structures, I thought that computers were way cooler knowing how to make abstract things like linked lists, and the experience I had really made working with them easy. I made my Node class and set all my members variable to private and quickly went to work making getters and setters, made even easier than before by the Android Studio environment suggestion just the right names as I started building the class. Then I made my constructor and felt like this would be cake. I ran into a fairly silly problem when I tried to traverse my linked list the first time. Since I used a doubly linked list, that’s a pointer the next, and a pointer to previous, I needed to make sure I appropriately updated their members. Turns out I did not ever set the next member, and I quickly figured out the solution.

Once I got to actually doing the computations, that was fairly simple. If an operator is reached while traversing the linked list grab the two previous for postfix notation and grab the next two nodes for prefix notation. The only thing I forgot at first was to update my linked list. It works now with properly formatted input, but it was satisfying to just have the knowledge of how to get swaps and updates working on a data structure quickly.

The thing that haunts me still is a zero input. For some reason, turning the node value, which I stored as a string, into a double has a lot of problems with turning a string “0” into the value 0. I tried catching number format exceptions, which did stop the application from crashing, but did not completely fix the problem. I tried hard coding the zero case in, still to no avail. Presently, if a zero is detected as either the left or right operand the answer is always zero. Doesn’t matter if it’s addition, multiplication or subtraction! But then again, I might be able to fix it on more sleep.
